README.md, before:

# Portkey

Live-coding the Cloud!

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/portkey-cloud/portkey/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/portkey-cloud/portkey/tree/master)

Portkey allows, at the REPL, to expose any function as an AWS Lambda.

> Almost any inanimate object can be turned into a Portkey. Once bewitched, the object will transport anyone who grasps it to a pre-arranged destination.

> The sensation of travelling by Portkey is universally agreed to be uncomfortable, if not downright unpleasant, and can lead to nausea, giddiness and worse.

([source](https://www.pottermore.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/portkeys))

## Example

Live at the repl:

```clj
(defn flatter [name]
  (str name " is " (rand-nth ["incredible" "awesome" "fantastic"])))

(pk/mount! flatter "/hello?name={name}")
=> {:url "https://api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com/hello"}
```

Go to "https://api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com/hello?name=Rich" (and wait for the instance to start).

## Usage

Add `[portkey "0.1.0-alpha"]` to your project file.

spec could be leveraged so that a s/fdef would automatically turn validation on the api

Once a fn is mounted we can automatically update it each time it or one of
its direct or indirect deps change!

## Master plan

First steps:

 1. ~Borrow Ouroboros from Powderkeg (only class access matters, var tracking is irrelevant in a first time).~
 2. ~Starting from a fn, serialize it using Kryo and a custom SerializerFactory to log all classes traversed during serialization. We also need to log all serialized vars.~
 3. ~Serialize these vars values and keep going until there's no new var.~
 4. ~Consider all classes encountered during steps 2 and 3.~
 5. ~Visit their bytecode to find all references to other classes or vars.~
 6. ~go to 3 until no new classes (somehow done but need to be smarter about common dynamicisms, provide good defaults)~
 7. ~package them all~
 8. ~send to the cloud!~
 
Next steps:

 * Since we know the deps of the Lambda, we can redeploy it when a var change locally.
 * `fdef` specs could be leveraged to validate Lambda input.
 * var meta can provide hints for params naming.
 * support other backends than AWS Lambda
 * S3 buckets as Clojure references?
 * Track methods usage and narrow the deps graphs (bonus: remove unused methods from classes)

## Requirements

The following AWS service actions are used by portkey, define them in for example an inline policy for a IAM user:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*",
      "Action": [
        "lambda:GetPolicy",
        "lambda:GetFunction",
        "lambda:GetFunctionConfiguration",
        "lambda:AddPermission",
        "lambda:CreateFunction",
        "lambda:UpdateFunctionCode",
        "lambda:InvokeFunction",
        "lambda:UpdateFunctionConfiguration",
        "apigateway:*",
        "iam:GetRole",
        "iam:CreateRole",
        "iam:PutRolePolicy",
        "iam:PassRole",
        "ec2:DescribeSubnets",
        "ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups",
        "ec2:DescribeVpcs"
        ]
    }
  ]
}

```

## License

Copyright © 2017 Christophe Grand and Kimmo Koskinen

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.

Commit message:

Mention need for "lein install" for now

README.md, after:

# Portkey

Live-coding the Cloud!

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/portkey-cloud/portkey/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/portkey-cloud/portkey/tree/master)

Portkey allows, at the REPL, to expose any function as an AWS Lambda.

> Almost any inanimate object can be turned into a Portkey. Once bewitched, the object will transport anyone who grasps it to a pre-arranged destination.

> The sensation of travelling by Portkey is universally agreed to be uncomfortable, if not downright unpleasant, and can lead to nausea, giddiness and worse.

([source](https://www.pottermore.com/writing-by-jk-rowling/portkeys))

## Example

Live at the repl:

```clj
(defn flatter [name]
  (str name " is " (rand-nth ["incredible" "awesome" "fantastic"])))

(pk/mount! flatter "/hello?name={name}")
=> {:url "https://api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com/hello"}
```

Go to "https://api-id.execute-api.region.amazonaws.com/hello?name=Rich" (and wait for the instance to start).

## Usage

1. Clone the repository and run `lein install` (portkey is still alpha so not on clojars yet).
2. Add `[portkey "0.1.0-SNAPSHOT"]` to your project file.

spec could be leveraged so that a s/fdef would automatically turn validation on the api

Once a fn is mounted we can automatically update it each time it or one of
its direct or indirect deps change!

## Master plan

First steps:

 1. ~Borrow Ouroboros from Powderkeg (only class access matters, var tracking is irrelevant in a first time).~
 2. ~Starting from a fn, serialize it using Kryo and a custom SerializerFactory to log all classes traversed during serialization. We also need to log all serialized vars.~
 3. ~Serialize these vars values and keep going until there's no new var.~
 4. ~Consider all classes encountered during steps 2 and 3.~
 5. ~Visit their bytecode to find all references to other classes or vars.~
 6. ~go to 3 until no new classes (somehow done but need to be smarter about common dynamicisms, provide good defaults)~
 7. ~package them all~
 8. ~send to the cloud!~
 
Next steps:

 * Since we know the deps of the Lambda, we can redeploy it when a var change locally.
 * `fdef` specs could be leveraged to validate Lambda input.
 * var meta can provide hints for params naming.
 * support other backends than AWS Lambda
 * S3 buckets as Clojure references?
 * Track methods usage and narrow the deps graphs (bonus: remove unused methods from classes)

## Requirements

The following AWS service actions are used by portkey, define them in for example an inline policy for a IAM user:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*",
      "Action": [
        "lambda:GetPolicy",
        "lambda:GetFunction",
        "lambda:GetFunctionConfiguration",
        "lambda:AddPermission",
        "lambda:CreateFunction",
        "lambda:UpdateFunctionCode",
        "lambda:InvokeFunction",
        "lambda:UpdateFunctionConfiguration",
        "apigateway:*",
        "iam:GetRole",
        "iam:CreateRole",
        "iam:PutRolePolicy",
        "iam:PassRole",
        "ec2:DescribeSubnets",
        "ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups",
        "ec2:DescribeVpcs"
        ]
    }
  ]
}

```

## License

Copyright © 2017 Christophe Grand and Kimmo Koskinen

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.
